artstate=Botanical forms are the major influence of my work, and it is in nature that I find visual representation of my own life experiences.  My work provides a visual analogy of these often overlooked occurrences.  I use the information in my natural surroundings to configure a new and yet slightly familiar environment.  
Through raising, forging, and repousse I am able to manipulate the copper and silver into a fluid and organic form.  While forming the metal, I react to its responses as much as it surrenders to each blow of the hammer.  The organic forms are emphasized by the hammered texture that covers the surface of the metal; each hammer mark and surface treatment of the material is integral in reinforcing the perception of plant life.
While still exploring the traditional techniques and philosophies of metalsmithing, I am also interested in expanding the boundaries of the field to include alternative materials and processes.  My use of new materials is analogous of a shift in context within the piece as well as within contemporary metalsmithing.  Resin, plastic, and guitar strings are representative of new technologies and advancement.  A new growth in the forms is indicative of progress, change, and exploration that happen in society and specifically the field of metalsmithing.  
In my work, I choose certain materials for their social references as well as their inherent physical properties.  The use of silver in my work is significant because I am pulling it away from its high status to make it a secondary element.  The silver was at one time essential to the form but transitions to make way for a new material to emerge.  I am utilizing mass produced materials such as plastic, resin, and guitar strings because of their associations with technology, the mundane, and the everyday.  Both the metal and industrial materials are altered to create organic forms, but the materials each have specific roles that they fulfill.  The metal forms are the source and initial shelter for the alternative materials to grow out of.  
In nature, pods serve as a protective layer for the delicate seed within.  Though resilient, once the pod is cracked, it becomes vulnerable as it succumbs to the surrounding environment.  The changeover from the pod’s shell being the dominate element to the growing seedling gaining independence is a delicate and fleeting moment.  The raised metal volumes in my work then convey protection and strength through their forms while simultaneously exposing their fragility through the delicate texturing of the metal.  
Explaining the evolution that is experienced as we grow and mature into adults is a complex task.  Through the permanence of metal, I am capturing the feeling of protectiveness, thereby creating a visual depiction of the psychological barriers that exists in each of us.  My work is an explanation of the experiences of growing up without severing the ties to those who have raised me.   
